.TH anyfs 8 "05 Aug 2006" "Version 0.84.5"
.SH "NAME"
anyfs \- filesystem with external inode table.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.RB "mount -t " any " -o
.BI inodetable= file.it "[," other_mount_options ] " device dir"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B anyfs
filesystem driver for
.B Linux
allows to mount device using inode table information.
At mounted filesystem will be allow so file operations as
deleting, moving files; making symbolic and hard links,
special files; changing file access permissions.
All this changes saves on unmounting to the same external inode table file
and doesn't affect the device.

BE ATTENTIVE. Don't forget unmount 
.B anyfs
filesystem before using other utilities of
.BR anyfs-tools 
package.
Otherwise with unmounting driver the driver rewrites inode table
and all changing made by other utilities will lost.
.br
Incidentally if you still forgot unmount
.B anyfs
filesystem, and already have used e.g.
.BR reblock ,
you need, to copy/move new version of inode table to another place,
then unmount 
.BR anyfs ,
and finally you may again restore new version of inode table at former
place.

anyfs driver doesn't print any details if you specified
external inode table file with bad format.
For more details you can test external inode table file with the next
command:
.br
$ reblock -n <inode_table> /dev/null 512

The inode table has correct format if you get message
"BLKGETSIZE: Inappropriate ioctl for device".
	
.SH "MOUNT OPTIONS"
Besides usual mount options for
.B anyfs
mounting it is necessary to specify yet one option
.TP
.BI  inodetable= file.it
For pointing file of external inode table.

.SH "USAGE EXAMPLES"
Mounts /dev/hda1 to /mnt/hda1 using inode.table:
.br
# mount -t any -o inodetable=inode.table /dev/hda1 /mnt/hda1

Mounts /dev/hda1 as anyfs in read-only mode:
.br
# mount -t any -o ro,inodetable=inode.table /dev/hda1 /mnt/hda1

.SH "AUTHOR"
Nikolaj Krivchenkov aka unDEFER <undefer@gmail.com>

.SH "BUG REPORTS"
Messages about any problem with using
.B anyfs-tools
package send to
undefer@gmail.com

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
You can obtain the last version of package at
http://anyfs-tools.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR anyfs-tools(8),
.BR anyfs_inode_table(5),
.BR mount(8)
