.TH anyfs_inode_table 5 "30 Jan 2006" "Version 0.83"
.SH "NAME"
anyfs_inode_table \- external inode table for anyfs filesystem
 used by utilities of anyfs-tools package
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B anyfs_inode_table

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
External inode table contains information about file blocks location,
directory structure and access permissions.

File structure is text-binary.
I.e. despite the fact that file containing maybe easy viewed with
plain text editor, its editing produce some trouble so as
there are strict field size fixation and links -- numbers meaning
offset in bytes.
All numbers in this file is hexadecimal.

Look at file structure more detailed.
File consists of 4 sections with fixed headers:

1) 
.BR BLOCK_SIZE ,
then after space there is 32-bit number (eight hex-digits) -- 
filesystem blocksize and end of line.

2)
.BR INODES ,
then after space there is also 32-bit number -- number of inodes
in filesystem, and end of line

3)
.BR INODE_TABLE ,
after that there is end of line and yet 
.B INODES
lines describing each inode.

4)
.BR DATA ,
end of line and variable number of lines describing directory structure and
symbolic links.

Inode description line in
.B INODE_TABLE
section consists of nine numbers divided with spaces.
Total the line length -- 72 + end of line (73-th symbol). \
Meaning of the nine fields is next:

1) 16-bit number (4 digits) -- protection with
.BR mode_t
type. The field bits meaning described in
.BR stat (2).

2) 16-bit number (4 digits) -- user ID of file owner
.BR UID .

3) 16-bit number (4 digits) -- group ID of file owner
.BR GID .

4) 64-bit number (16 digits) -- file size.

5) 32-bit number (8 digits) -- time of last access
.BR atime .

6) 32-bit number (8 digits) -- time of last modification
.BR mtime .

7) 32-bit number (8 digits) -- time of last status change
.BR ctime .

8) 16-bit number (4 digits) -- number of hard links.

9) 32-bit number (8 digits) has two possibly meaning:
.br
	a) in case of
regular files, symbolic links and directories, is link to additional
information for this inode in
.BR DATA 
section. The link is offset in bytes from beginning of
.BR DATA 
section, i.e. beginning from first line after 
.BR DATA 
header.
.br
	b) in case of special files of devices, this field keeps device type
(value of
.BR dev_t 
type)

In 
.B DATA
section keeps additional information for directories, symbolic links
and regular files:

a) for directories description begins with fixed header:
.BR DIR ,
after that there is 32-bit number (8 digits) -- number of entries
in the directory
.RI ( entries ),
end of line,
after that also yet
.I entries
lines -- description of each entries.
.br
Directory entry description consists of 1) file name -- string
with null-terminating; 2) 32-bit number -- inode number.

b) symbolic link description begins from fixed header
.BR LNK ,
after that there are space, value of link -- string with null-terminating.

c) for regular files description begins from fixed header
.BR REG ,
after that there are space, 32-bit number (8 digits) -- number of file fragments
.RI ( frags ),
end of line, \
after that yet
.I frags
lines with description of each fragments.
A fragment description consist of 2 32-bit numbers divided with spaces:
1) device block number, in which locates the first block of file fragment
(besides zero must be interpreted as fragment of sparse-blocks);
2) count of blocks in fragment -- all this blocks locates at device
continuously, following one after one.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Nikolaj Krivchenkov aka unDEFER <undefer@gmail.com>

.SH "BUG REPORTS"
Messages about any problem with using
.B anyfs-tools
package send to
undefer@gmail.com

.SH "AVAILABILITY"
You can obtain the last version of package at
http://anyfs-tools.sourceforge.net

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR anyfs-tools(8),
.BR stat(2)
